README.md, before:

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/sed.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/sed)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-7289DA.svg?logo=discord&longCache=true&style=flat)](https://discord.gg/wQVJbvJ)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/uutils/sed/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/uutils/sed/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/uutils/sed)

[![CodeCov](https://codecov.io/gh/uutils/sed/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/uutils/sed)

# sed

Rust reimplementation of the [sed utility](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9799919799/utilities/sed.html)
with some [GNU sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/sed.html),
[FreeBSD sed](https://man.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?sed(1)),
and other extensions.

## Status

It is currently work in progress!

## Installation

Ensure you have Rust installed on your system. You can install Rust through [rustup](https://rustup.rs/).

Clone the repository and build the project using Cargo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/uutils/sed.git
cd sed
cargo build --release
cargo run --release
```
## Extensions and incompatibilities
### Spported GNU extensions
* Command-line arguments can be specified in long (`--`) form.
* Spaces can precede a regular expression modifier.
* `I` can be used in as a synonym for the `i` (case insensitive) substitution
  flag.
* In addition to `\n`, other escape sequences (octal, hex, C) are supported
  in the strings of the `y` command.
  Under POSIX these yield undefined behavior.

### Supported BSD and GNU extensions
* The second address in a range can be specified as a relative address with +N.

### New extensions
* Unicode characters can be specified in regular expression pattern, replacement
  and transliteration sequences using `\uXXXX` or `\UXXXXXXXX` sequences.

### Incompatibilities
* The input is assumed to be valid UTF-8 (this includes 7-bit ASCII).
  If the input is in another code page, consider converting it through UTF-8
  in order to avoid errors on invalid UTF-8 sequences and for the correct
  handling of regular expressions.
  This _sed_ program can also handle arbitrary byte sequences if no part of the
  input is treated as string.
- The last line (`$`) address is interpreted as the last non-empty line of
  the last file.  If files specified in subsequent arguments until the last
  one are empty, then the last line condition will never be triggered.
  This behavior is consistent with the
  [original implementation](https://github.com/dspinellis/unix-history-repo/blob/Research-V7/usr/src/cmd/sed/sed1.c#L665).

## License

sed is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details

Commit message:

Report error on duplicate labels
While at it fix the label population to avoid defining labels for the
branch command targets.

README.md, after:

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/sed.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/sed)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-7289DA.svg?logo=discord&longCache=true&style=flat)](https://discord.gg/wQVJbvJ)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/uutils/sed/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/uutils/sed/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/uutils/sed)

[![CodeCov](https://codecov.io/gh/uutils/sed/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/uutils/sed)

# sed

Rust reimplementation of the [sed utility](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9799919799/utilities/sed.html)
with some [GNU sed](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/sed.html),
[FreeBSD sed](https://man.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?sed(1)),
and other extensions.

## Status

It is currently work in progress!

## Installation

Ensure you have Rust installed on your system. You can install Rust through [rustup](https://rustup.rs/).

Clone the repository and build the project using Cargo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/uutils/sed.git
cd sed
cargo build --release
cargo run --release
```
## Extensions and incompatibilities
### Spported GNU extensions
* Command-line arguments can be specified in long (`--`) form.
* Spaces can precede a regular expression modifier.
* `I` can be used in as a synonym for the `i` (case insensitive) substitution
  flag.
* In addition to `\n`, other escape sequences (octal, hex, C) are supported
  in the strings of the `y` command.
  Under POSIX these yield undefined behavior.

### Supported BSD and GNU extensions
* The second address in a range can be specified as a relative address with +N.

### New extensions
* Unicode characters can be specified in regular expression pattern, replacement
  and transliteration sequences using `\uXXXX` or `\UXXXXXXXX` sequences.

### Incompatibilities
* The input is assumed to be valid UTF-8 (this includes 7-bit ASCII).
  If the input is in another code page, consider converting it through UTF-8
  in order to avoid errors on invalid UTF-8 sequences and for the correct
  handling of regular expressions.
  This _sed_ program can also handle arbitrary byte sequences if no part of the
  input is treated as string.
* The command will report an error and fail if duplicate labels are found
  in the script.
  This matches the BSD behavior. The GNU version accepts duplicate labels.
* The last line (`$`) address is interpreted as the last non-empty line of
  the last file.  If files specified in subsequent arguments until the last
  one are empty, then the last line condition will never be triggered.
  This behavior is consistent with the
  [original implementation](https://github.com/dspinellis/unix-history-repo/blob/Research-V7/usr/src/cmd/sed/sed1.c#L665).

## License

sed is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details
